>> Kyle Simpson: Also string literals,
or these template literals,
have another feature on them which allows
you to more fully control that process,
that pre-processing that
I was talking about.
They're called tagged literals.
So here on this interval literal
that I have, line 5 and line 6,
immediately before it,
I have this word formatCurrency.
Yes, it's on another line just to show
you that white space doesn't matter here.
But there's no operator between the two.
And that should look strange to you,
because you wouldn't be
able to put a identifier immediately
in front of a double or a single quote.
That would be a JavaScript error,
but here, it's allowed.
And what that's actually signifying,
you are declarative tagging this string to
say when it finishes i want it to before,
i'm sorry before it finishes i want it
to be processed with this function.
So it's actually a function call
it didn't really look like it but
it's a special kind of function call,
called a tagged template string, okay,
or tagged template literal.
So what we're saying here basically
in this particular case or
this example is when we
drop in that value 12.3,
we don't wanna just say 12.3 and
string form,
we actually wanna format it as if it
is US currency in this particular case.
So we want it to look like 12.30.
And the way we do that is
this formatCurrency function.
This is just one I wrote for this example.
You notice that it takes in some values,
it takes in a strings array.
And then, it takes in a values,
and notice that data dot there.
That's me gathering up all
the individual values into an array.
So, strings is all ready an array,
but the other values that come in,
those are individual and then,
I'm gathering them up into an array.
So what's happening here is that
JavaScript is gonna immediately
invoked this function for you,
and it's gonna pass to you,
all of the little bits of
literal strings in one array.
And then all the different values that
you've chosen to interpolate in these
individual positions that you
can gather up in turn array.
So in essentially of these
two arrays of things, and
then it's up to you to decide,
how do I want to put those together?
Or do I wanna put them
together at all even, okay?
In the general sense you're almost always
gonna use a tag function to produce
another string, and
you're generally just gonna loop
over those strings like I'm doing here and
interpolate them together.
To make that process easy, JavaScript
Guarantees that the strings array
will always have one more value in
it than the values array would have.
So in other words,
if I had three interpolated values.
Three expression in my literal,
then it guarantees that I'm gonna have
four string literals in the strings array.
Even if the first, or the last, or
both, have to be an empty string,
it guarantees that those
entries will be there.
And that means that if I've got four
strings and three values, it's easy for
me to interpolate them together.
And that's really all this for loop is
doing is looping over the strings array,
and then dropping in both the strings and
the values,
alternating between them to
produce this final string.
But there's one last little piece here,
which is line six, where I actually
do some formatting of the value as
US currency in this particular case.
And you'll notice that I'm actually
using another template literal right
inside with the US dollar sign.
And then the values, and
I'm using the two fixed method here
to format it with two decimal places.
That produces a string for me,
and if it's not one of those,
if one of those is not a number, then line
9, I just drop it in as its regular value.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now I could have written
this as a variety of different ways.
But it's illustrative of the idea of
what tag functions can do for you.
They're essentially a way to pre-process
your string, do some sort of formatting on
it, either of the strings or the values or
both depending upon what you need.
So let's think about some use cases for
that.
You could for example, have a tag function
that did various internationalization.
Like swapping in different terminology.
If you could detect that you are needing
a Spanish word or a French word you could
have it look up a value and
pick it from a different dictionary.
So you could have it automatically drop
in the appropriate terminology there.
You could imagine doing some
sort of escaping of strings,
if you were dropping in user provided
content and you needed to protect it from
having, cross site scripting,
scripting characters embedded in it.
You can imagine having a tag function that
automatically escaped out any of your HTML
entities to prevent cross sites scripting.
Really, the possibilities
are almost endless.
Any sort of preprocessing
that you can imagine, so
localization, like formatting of things,
internationalization, escaping.
All those sorts of preprocessing are
really great use cases for tag functions.
And the great news is, you almost
certainly don't even need to write your
own tag function, because there
are hundreds and hundreds of these tag
functions all ready written in various
different libraries at this point.
So you just go looking on NPM or
GetHub or wherever you look to find code.
Go looking, and you're gonna find tons
of tag functions, almost certainly.
Whatever kinda standard preprocessing or
formatting you wanna do,
there's a tag function for it.
So just go find the tag function,
use that library,
put it in front of your string
literals and then move on.